 Treasury has proposed plans to both protect your retirement savings and offer relief in tough times. The new fund structure is promising, but South Africans will need to continue to manage their savings with caution. In his Budget Speech last month, South Africa’s Minister of Finance, Enoch Godongwana, confirmed National Treasury’s intention to improve retirement savings outcomes through a “two pot” retirement savings structure which has been proposed to come into effect on 1 March 2024. South Africans may shine in many areas, from rugby, music and dancing to being super friendly and able to laugh at ourselves and our problems, but saving for retirement is unfortunately not one of our strengths. Not by a long shot. Annual surveys conducted by Old Mutual show that as much as 94% of working South Africans are not yet planning and saving enough for a comfortable retirement. The situation is made worse by the fact that many members of pension or provident funds resign from their jobs when they are under extreme financial pressure just so they can access the cash in their retirement savings. Lizl Budhram, Head of Advice at Old Mutual, says: “The long-term consequences of accessing some or all of your retirement savings in this way can unfortunately be dire. It’s seldom possible to make up for the loss of years of compound interest. However, the financial upheaval caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown has been so severe that many people have felt they had no alternative.” NEW SYSTEM OFFERS RELIEF IN TOUGH TIMES The new “two pot” retirement fund system offers an alternative to resigning from the fund and cashing in everything. All pension and provident fund members, as well as retirement annuity policyholders, will be allowed to access up to one-third of their retirement savings before retirement age without needing to resign or change jobs. It will however be compulsory to preserve the bulk of your retirement savings (the two-thirds in the main “pot”), leaving it to grow untouched and intact. It’s important to know that this new system will apply only to your future savings (from 1 March 2024, the day the “two pot” is due to be launched). This means none of your existing savings will be part of the “two pot” arrangement. In short, the “two pot” system is designed to simultaneously serve two key purposes. The larger “pot” protects your future retirement wellbeing, while the smaller one is a little more flexible and offers cash relief in times of severe financial distress. HOW TO PREPARE FOR A COMFORTABLE RETIREMENT VIA THE 'TWO POT' SYSTEM  Find out more: Old Mutual Life Assurance Company (SA) Limited is a licensed FSP and Life Insurer. Disclaimer The material is not intended as and does not constitute financial or any other advice. The material does not take your personal financial circumstances into account. For this reason, it is recommended that you speak to an accredited financial adviser to consider all your options and draw up a plan to achieve your financial goals.