JOHANNESBURG - Former Springbok flyhalf Louis Koen has been tasked with coaching the national women’s team on an interim basis as they prepare to play in their first Tests since last year’s Rugby World Cup. Koen and Junior Springbok Women’s coach, Laurian Johannes-Haupt, will take charge of the team as they open their 2023 season with Tests against Canada on 25 March and Spain on 1 April, with Koen as the head coach and Johannes-Haupt as his assistant. Koen has extensive coaching experience over the past 18 years where he has worked with various teams locally and abroad and is no stranger to women’s rugby. He’ll be familiar with some of the players in the squad after he coached a national Select XVs side on a tour to the UK in 2017 as SA Rugby restarted their Springbok Women’s programme. He has also been working with the squad in recent weeks, which was announced last week. Meanwhile, Johannes-Haupt, a former Springbok Women’s player who featured at the 2010 Rugby World Cup, will primarily coach the team’s forwards and was part of the Springbok Women’s team management who travelled to New Zealand for the global showpiece event. "I am pleased to have Laurian with us, as she has worked with the majority of the players last year, so there will be some sort of continuity carried over," Koen said. Women’s rugby in the country is entering a new phase with the start of a new World Cup cycle and after the loss of experienced campaigner Zenay Jordaan, who was the team’s most-capped player. Koen hopes the new dawn will usher in a period of success. "I am really grateful for the opportunity to be part of this new era in women's rugby and indeed women's sport. We saw with our women’s cricket team recently what is possible. I also want to thank (SA Rugby Director of Rugby) Rassie Erasmus and Charles Wessels (General Manager for Rugby) for putting confidence in me," Koen said. Erasmus said that the appointments of top-class coaches like Koen and Johannes-Haupt showed their commitment to improving the women’s programme and hoped that a permanent coach would be installed soon. "Louis brings a wealth of experience as our high-performance manager who has been overseeing our junior structures and elite player development programme, while he has also assisted the Junior Springboks in top-class international rugby as well coaching in the USA, and he is a former Springbok. This vast experience as a coach and player will be invaluable to the team as they continue to make a mark in the international arena," Erasmus said.