JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa said he was concerned about the shortage of government resources in order to deal with the number of socio-economic issues facing the country. Ramaphosa addressed ANC delegates at the start of the party's two-day lekgotla in Johannesburg on Sunday, where party leaders were expected to discuss the energy crisis, the state of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and the economy. The party president painted a grim picture of the country's conditions amid high unemployment rates, poor service delivery linked to the looming collapse of several municipalities, the rising cost of living, and stagnant economic growth. While Ramaphosa said government remained committed to addressing South Africa's challenges, he admitted this wouldn't be an easy feat. "The scale of the challenges before us comrades is enormous. We cannot do everything that needs to be done all at once. Even if we have the will, what might bring us back is the resources that need to be marshalled. If we attempt to address everything with the same urgency and at the same time, we are likely to fail to address anything in the meanwhile." The lekgotla comes ahead of government's cabinet meeting where a similar agenda is expected to be tabled. We must not forget that South Africa’s future mix of energy sources is outlined in the Integrated Resource Plan 2019. It envisages a diversity of energy sources, including coal, renewables, nuclear, gas and storage. https://t.co/ShlygSurVM pic.twitter.com/FbZwNwSg0o  Ramaphosa said resolving the country's growing energy crisis remained a top priority as load shedding continued to undermine economic growth. He said there were no plans to decommission all the coal-fired power stations. The Medupi and Kusile power stations help contribute at least 80% of the country's energy, but the continuous breakdown of units at these plants has left residents and businesses in the dark as Eskom implements rolling blackouts. Ramaphosa said despite the operational issues, coal will remain a part of the power utility's energy mix. "We've invested a lot of money in those power stations," said Ramaphosa. He also reaffirmed plans to add additional generating capacity to the grid in a bid to ease power cuts. The party's two-day meeting in Johannesburg followed a meeting by newly elected NEC members, as well as the election of members of the national working committee. RELATED: Ramaphosa instructs energy crisis committee to fast-track plan Economy is exhausted, South Africans can't afford blackouts for two years - Cosatu 