JOHANNESBURG – Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo is joining Saudi Arabian team Al-Nassr FC and is said to be moving his family, including long-time girlfriend Spanish supermodel and social media influencer Georgina Rodríguez. "I had many opportunities"Cristiano Ronaldo reveals that clubs in 'Europe, the US' and across the world wanted to sign him - but he chose Saudi Arabiapic.twitter.com/sPrUZsuMJZ  The question on social media and probably on everyone’s mind is whether Rodríguez will be living with Ronaldo. One wonders whether the kingdom will turn a blind eye to Ronaldo's living arrangements and overlook the "prohibit cohabitation without a marriage contract" laws. Laws in Saudi Arabia are different and can be much stricter than those in Europe, especially when it comes to criminal justice, human rights, women's rights, LGBT rights, and religious freedom. READ: Ronaldo to leave Manchester United with 'immediate effect' Cristiano Ronaldo and his partner Georgina Rodriguez will reportedly break the law in Saudi Arabia by living together despite the country's laws forbidding non-married couples to live together. Saudi Arabia will allow Cristiano Ronaldo live with partner Georgina Rodriguez.... pic.twitter.com/ZTH8A6uACA  Women are also expected to dress conservatively and cover their shoulders and knees in public. Saudi Arabia is known for its strict laws and cultural customs, and one of them forbids unmarried individuals from living with each other. But history could change for Cristiano Ronaldo. “ If Saudi government bending their marriage laws to allow Ronaldo and Georgina Rodríguez cohabit doesn't convince your that religion is only strict for the poor, nothing will (sic),” said one Twitter user. If Saudi government bending thier marriage laws to allow Ronaldo and Georgina Rodrguez cohabit doesn't convince your that religion is only strict for the poor, nothing will. pic.twitter.com/sMae8E9n8e  The oil-rich kingdom is said to be considering a bid to host world football's 2030 showpiece tournament, and Ronaldo's ambassadorial role will bring his reported earnings in the country to over 400 million euros ($428 million). The arrival of the former Manchester United, Real Madrid and Juventus player came just weeks after neighbouring Qatar became the first Arab nation to host the World Cup. The five-time Ballon d'Or winner, who has also won the Champions League five times, and holds that tournament's goal-scoring record, signed with Saudi Arabian club Al-Nassr following his exit from Premier League club Manchester United prior to the World Cup. Cristiano Ronaldo :In Europe, my job is done. I won it all. For me now it's a new challenge. I had offers from Portugal, Australia, Brazil and the United States, but I have the goal of changing the vision of football in Saudi Arabia."pic.twitter.com/oTuxm4dHix 