JOHANNESBURG - The Nigerian Consulate in South Africa has accused Joburg City Power of violating international treaties by cutting off power in their Alexandra offices. On Wednesday, City Power disconnected the electricity at their offices in Alexandra as part of its disconnection drive for defaulting customers. City Power says the building has an electricity bill of over R400,000. The Nigerian Consulate general has described Joburg City Power’s disconnection as an invasion. In a letter Eyewitness News has verified – the consulate says there is no justification for City Power showing up at their offices with metro police officers and a media group without warning. It says this is against the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations which outlines guidelines on consular premises in foreign countries. READ: City Power to expand disconnection drive to other parts of Joburg The Consulate General says it has written to the Nigerian and South African government. Joburg City Power says it’s aware of the letter and is still considering a response. But City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena  says power has been restored at the consulate after it paid a portion of its bill. NIGERIAN CONSULATE LODGES COMPLAINT AGAINST JOBURG CITY POWER Meanwhile, the Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) said it received a formal complaint from the Nigerian Consulate general over the disconnection of electricity at its Johannesburg offices. Head of public diplomacy at Dirco, Clayson Monyela, said the complaint by the Nigerian Consulate following a revenue collection blitz by Joburg City Power is being dealt with through diplomatic channels between the two countries. The consulate described the disconnection of electricity by the city's power utility as an invasion. It is also alleged that consulate officials shut the entrance and refused city power access, however, it was able to disconnect the electricity. Monyela said Dirco is looking at mediating between the Joburg municipality and the Nigerian Consulate. He said both South Africa and Nigeria are signatories to the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations – which the Nigerian Consulate general accused Joburg City Power of violating. “And the convention is very clear about how to treat a diplomatic mission as a host country. What privileges and amenities they enjoy etc. at the same time city power has an obligation once they provide a service that service needs to be paid for.” Joburg city power has not issued a formal response, however, Eyewitness News understands they are aware of the complaint.