JOHANNESBURG - The Gauteng Education Department said it's working throughout the weekend to place pupils in schools by Monday. Frustrations ran high as some parents were left in the dark about where their children would go to school as the 2023 academic year kicked off in inland provinces last week. The Education Department vowed to resolve the placement backlog within 10 days. By late Friday, 571 Grade 1 and 8 learners were yet to be placed in a classroom. However, department spokesperson, Steve Mabona said their systems have improved. He said the department has managed to place 823 more children in schools. "This simply means that since we started with the process of online admissions, we have successfully placed over 291,574 learners in different schools. Placement challenges within our identified high-pressure areas - that is where schools received a much higher number of applications than what they could accommodate are being attended to which will ensure that all learners are placed." We are moving @EducationGP1 @matomekopano @GautengProvince https://t.co/IhI5Mzs9Nx  Meanwhile, the Western Cape Education department said 99% of Grade 1 and Grade 8 pupils have been placed for the start of the school year. The department said while this is a massive achievement it certainly does not mean that the work is complete with 680 children still requiring placement. At coastal schools, teachers will be reporting for duty on Monday while pupils are expected to return to the classroom on Wednesday for the start of the 2023 academic year. The department’s Bronagh Hammond said although placing pupils is a challenge, they do have contingency plans in place for late applications. “We will receive late further dates application, despite ongoing and public appeals to parents to apply timeously last year. This is the reality we face faced by other provinces in the past week to which we are sympathetic. An understanding of the systemic conditions for placing each child is required which is made tougher and trickier when it comes to late applications.”