JOHANNESBURG- Social media users and news outlets around the world celebrated the life of former South African boxer Gerrie ‘Boksburg Bomber’ Coetzee. "Great memories of my late dad getting me up very early to watch boxing matches and I remember this fight clearly. RIP Gerrie Coetzee" said one Twitter user. Great memories of my late dad getting me up very early to watch boxing matches and I remember this fight clearly. RIP Gerrie Coetzee. https://t.co/cYoCMFfpPf  The former WBA heavyweight champion died  at the age of 67 on Thursday at his home in Bloubergstrand in the Western Cape following a battle with cancer. The Boksburg Bomber stunned the boxing world when, he knocked out Michael Dokes in the tenth round on 23 September 1983 in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. The win made him the first white heavyweight champion since Ingemar Johansson in 1959 and the first South African to win a world heavyweight title. Some of the fighters he danced with in the ring were Mike Weaver, Leon Spinks, James Tillis, Greg Page and Pinklon Thomas. Deepest sympathies to the family members, on the sad passing of Mr Gerrie Coetzee, the Boksburg Bomber. He was a heroic sportsman. He did South Africa proud. A sad loss indeed.  Coetzee was a former South African boxer and WBA heavyweight champion during the height of apartheid in the 1970s and 1980s. "Not to mention the famous Gerrie Coetzee vs John Tate fight. During the height of apartheid. South Africans split along racial lines" posted a Twitter user. Not to mention the famous #GerrieCoetzee VS #JohnTate fight. During the height of apartheid... South Africans split along racial lines: whites - #SlaanHomGerrie - blacks - #MshayeJonhTateUthataMaChance https://t.co/Y3Y6YnYf1H  Coeztee won 33 of his 40 professional bouts and 21 by knockout. Action SA leader Herman Mashaba said he was saddened by the passing of Coetzee. " Saddened to hear of the passing of Gerrie Coetzee, a true champion that put South African boxing on the map. I had the privilege to work with Gerrie during the 70s & 80s to promote boxing, and will never forget his passion. My condolences to his family. May he rest in peace", Mashaba posted on his Twitter account Saddened to hear of the passing of Gerrie Coetzee, a true champion that put South African boxing on the map. I had the privilege to work with Gerrie during the 70s & 80s to promote boxing, and will never forget his passion.My condolences to his family. May he rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/C95NkuS6mW  A giant has fallen. The Boksburg Bomberhas succumbed to illness. Almost exactly 40 years after his great triumph - winning the WBA heavyweight championship by 10th-round KO against Mike Dokes - Gerrie Coetzee has died aged 67. One of my boyhood heroes. RIP. pic.twitter.com/XOeyYAlAeR 