BLOEMFONTEIN - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday reiterated that plans are in the pipeline to end load shedding. Ramaphosa's comments during his January 8th address at the Dr Petrus Molemela Stadium in Mangaung, come amid unrelenting power cuts that have hit residents and businesses for months on end. Eskom is battling ageing infrastructure, shortages in generating capacity and corruption. Addressing thousands of ANC supporters at the party's 111th anniversary celebrations, Ramaphosa vowed to ensure additional megawatts will be added to the strained electricity grid. He also called on the power utility to work around the clock to tighten operations, clean up the state-owned company, and secure strong leadership at the helm. This as the country continues to seesaw between Stage three and four power cuts. "We must return Eskoms generation capacity to optimum performance. This responsibility will be given to capable and qualified individuals. We must also tackle sabotage at ANC. We will also lead a campaign against illegal connections" @CyrilRamaphosa@MYANC#ANC111 #remonafela pic.twitter.com/50FFHxIjzY  Meanwhile, the party president said the ANC will double down on efforts to root out corruption in leadership structures. Several party leaders have been implicated in corruption scandals, with the State Capture Commission of Inquiry further smearing the image of the party. Despite pushback from some quarters within the party, the ANC resolved to maintain its controversial step-aside resolution at its recent 55th national conference. READ: ANC resolves to keep step-aside policy Ramaphosa said the party would stop at nothing to clean up its image, adding the party would also implement recommendations in the state capture report to avoid further crippling public institutions. "We view corruption as being counter-revolutionary. Any ANC member implicated or involved in corrupt activities will be dealt with and must be dealt with according to the ANC rules to enhance the integrity of the organisation."