JOHANNESBURG – Police in Midvaal say despite a number of sightings of a tiger that escaped in the area, the animal still has not been found. It is understood that the female tiger escaped from a  smallholding in Daleside, Sedibeng on Saturday. Police said a 39-year-old man and his dog were attacked by the big cat. ALSO READ: Govt urged to put an end to wild animals being kept as pets Member of the Midvaal council, Steven van der Walt, who is on the ground, said a police helicopter was being used in the search. Van der Walt said teams were heading into the bush on foot. "I don't think we'll bring in the canine units, due to the fact that it's a danger to the dogs and to the handler, because the tiger is totally unpredictable," Van der Walt said. He said a number of sightings of the tiger were reported in different areas. "It's highly unlikely the tiger could have been in all those places around about the same time," he said. SPCA, NSPCA on the ground The SPCA in Vereeniging and Vanderbijlpark said in a statement on Sunday their teams were working closely with authorities to ensure the safe capture of the tiger. The National Council of Societies for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) said they were also on the ground with police to make sure the escaped tigress was handled with care when eventually found. “Wild animals belong in the wild; they should not be kept in residential areas, or in captivity for that matter,” the NSPCA’s Keshvi Nair said. “Unfortunately, no keeping permits are required to keep these wild and dangerous animals in residential areas in Gauteng. This is a matter the NSPCA and the SPCA alike remain opposed to, and there are many risks to keeping wildlife in captivity, especially in residential areas.” Wildlife expert Gerrie Camacho said that under these circumstances, the big cat was unpredictable. "They're still wild animals, even though they are tame, they are even more dangerous for the fact that they're not scared of people. "In a situation where there's public involved, people will get scared and will start running or do things that might stimulate the animal to attack. And remember, the animal will get hungry. And that's also another stimulus for an animal to be more vicious or create more of a risk."