JOHANNESBURG - Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande said Mboneli Vesele will forever be remembered as a man who laid down his life in defence of the integrity of the University of Fort Hare. Vesele was killed during an assassination attempt  on the life of the university's Vice-Chancellor (VC) Professor Sakhela Buhlungu last Friday. Vesele - who was Buhlungu's close protector, was killed when shots were fired at the VC's vehicle outside his residence at the Alice Campus in the Eastern Cape. RELATED:  Speaking at the funeral service, which was held on Saturday at the university, Nzimande condemned Vesele’s murder and the threats on the life of the Buhlungu, calling it criminality. The minister added that the fight against corruption at the institution required a collective effort. “Please ensure that the fight against corruption at Fort Hare is made exclusive. Workers must be part of it, students must be part of it, staff must be part of it, everyone must be part of it.” Today we laid to rest Mr Mboneli Vesele, the Executive Protection Officer to the University of Fort Hare Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sakhele Buhlungu.I once-more pass my heartfelt condolences to the Vesele Family, Friends and the University of Fort Hare on the murder of Mr Vesele. pic.twitter.com/oTl4OMUPoo  Buhlungu was hailed as an upstanding member of society who loved his job and was committed to fighting corruption. Vesele's close friend and colleague, Mvula Mthimkulu remembered him as a hands-on person who was opposed to corruption: “His destiny was to fight corruption. He has died fighting against corruption, and for us it to say he must rest in peace”, said Mthimkhulu. His son Bontle said he would forever remember the lessons his father taught him. “A great man is a man who helps those in need. One who lives a great light of inspiration. A supporter, a good example of what a true man is. A protector, always there to give you a solution to the obstacles you are currently facing. Gone but never forgotten”, he said. Speaking at Vesele's funeral service, Buhlungu said Vesele’s death had left an immeasurable loss for him and his family. It is understood the suspected attempted assassination is due to Buhlungu's efforts to root out corruption at the institution. Buhlungu said he and Vesele shared a very strong relationship.