GAUTENG - African National Congress (ANC) Member of Parliament (MP) Sibusiso Kula who was arrested for allegedly killing his wife told the court that he is willing to work with police to find out who really murdered his wife. Kula made his first appearance on Monday morning at the Orkney Magistrates Court in the North West province. He is charged with the murder of his wife, Jennifer Kula. She died in November 2022 due to multiple stab wounds. A packed courtroom greeted ANC MP Kula when he stepped into the Orkney courtroom as he made his first appearance for the alleged murder of his wife. Defence attorney Gcina Dlanjwa said it is not surprising the case attracted public and media attention due to Kula’s position as a public official. Dlanjwa said that public perception should not sway the magistrate's mind from granting his client emergency bail. "We cannot over-emphasise your worship that the personal liberty and the right of the accused to be released for bail in the interest of justice is very important and essential to our Constitution.” Dlanjwa said Kula holds an important position in society and he said he also wants to know who was responsible for his wife’s death. Meanwhile, the State prosecution team said it still needs time to consult with the investigating officer and asked for the bail application to be postponed while Kula remains behind bars. JENNIFER WAS IN AN ABUSIVE MARRIAGE The family of the late Jennifer said she was in an abusive marriage with Sibusiso. One of the last posts from her Facebook page reads “gbv [gender-based violence] is real, if I wake up killed or any of my family members please don’t look far”. Her big sister Mampotseng Motlhomi said she was referring to her husband, Sibusiso. “Since Jennifer got married her life has been hell. They have been fighting every year until last of last year. Jennifer took the kids to Rustenburg to stay with us just to protect them because they were seeing them always fighting, Sibusiso beating her always,” said Motlhomi. Motlhomi  described her sister as someone with a big personality who loved her three children. She said the family was hoping for justice for her death. Sibusiso was remanded in custody until January 27 when he will make a formal bail application. Mampontseng Motlhomi, sister of the late Jennifer Motlhomi, reacts to the news that Sibusiso Kula has been remanded in custody till January 27; She says the family wants justice especially for the sake of the kids. TCG pic.twitter.com/ilAEB523En  [JUST IN] Sibusiso Kula, ANC member of Parliament to remain behind bars until January 27 for a formal bail application. Kula is charged with the murder of his wife, Jennifer Kula (Motlhomi). TCG pic.twitter.com/2FjPK2CKmP 