JOHANNESBURG - Police and prosecutors were pulling out all the stops to track down Gerhard Ackerman, the man accused of running a child sex ring. Ackerman did not show up for his trial in the high court in Johannesburg on Thursday, and police later discovered that he had vacated his residence and sold all his furniture. "The High Court of South Africa Gauteng Local Division in Johannesburg has issued a warrant for the arrest for Gerhard Ackerman following his disappearance," said the National Prosecuting Authority's (NPA's) Phindi Mjonondwane. The State on Saturday also filed an urgent court application to have his bail revoked. Mjondwane said the 52-year-old's disappearance was in contravention of his bail conditions. He was granted R6,000 bail by the Johannesburg Magistrates' Court in 2021, on condition that he reports to the nearest police station on a daily basis. Ackerman is also not allowed to leave Gauteng without permission from the investigating officer, and he is not allowed to be in possession of a laptop or cell phone to access the internet. The NPA said since his disappearance, it had put in place measures to ensure his alleged victims, who are set to testify in the trial, are protected. "We will use all available resources to apprehend Ackerman so that he can face the full might of the law," said Mjondwane. "We have further embarked on an exercise that aims at promoting the safety of all victims and we'll welcome any assistance from the public towards his apprehension." Ackerman faces 740 charges, including rape, attempted murder, distribution of child pornography, and the human trafficking of minors for sexual exploitation. Ackerman's co-accused in the matter, acting judge and human rights lawyer Paul Kennedy, died by suicide last year after being charged. The two allegedly worked together to sexually groom, rape, and expose young boys to pornographic material. The State said it would work tirelessly to apprehend Ackerman and welcomed any assistance from the public in finding him. 