JOHANNESBURG - The mayoral candidate for the Democratic Alliance (DA)-led multiparty coalition in Tshwane, Cilliers Brink  says he wants to restore residents’ confidence in the capital city. Brink, a DA member of Parliament has been chosen by the coalition to stand for executive mayor in Tshwane following the resignation of Randall Williams  last week. Cilliers held a media briefing on Wednesday where he outlined his plans for the city. Brink said the DA-led multiparty coalition in Tshwane has to set an example of what a successful coalition government looks like. READ: Tshwane multiparty coalition touts Cilliers brink for mayoral post He said the coalition needs to keep its promise to residents of building a working,  corruption-free and stable city that can serve everyone. Unlike in Joburg and Ekurhuleni, said Brink, the Tshwane coalition remains strong and has a majority of seats in the council. “This coalition and the parties that form part of it do not have partners that run between the DA and ANC [African National Congress] and different parties in order to negotiate for better positions.” The ANC in Tshwane said it is in consultation with other parties in the city to put up their own mayoral candidate. BRINK SETS SIGHTS ON REMEDYING TSHWANE’S FINANCES SHOULD HE BE ELECTED Brink said getting a grip on the metro's finances would be his priority if elected. He added that it’s important that the city responds to the Auditor-General’s damning report that ultimately led to the resignation of Williams. The report found billions of rands and assets unaccounted for along with loose oversight systems on municipal finances. Brink said he's honoured to return to Tshwane where he served as a councillor since 2016 before going to Parliament in 2019. “There will be a number of difficult decisions but what is important is that whatever is done [must] not compromise the basics of local government: roads, electricity, water, sewerage, well-lit and maintained streets and parks… Those are the essentials, if we get that right, we can draw investments, we can restore confidence, we can life people out of poverty and into the middle class.”