JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane hasn’t settled on his preferred goalkeeper this season as Bruce Bvuma, Itumeleng Khune and Brandon Peterson have all shared the starting spot. There will be plenty of talk in the lead-up to the game about who of the three men Zwane should choose. Peterson has started the last eight games in goal for Amakhosi and would have been eager to keep his spot in the team for the derby. However, his performance against Golden Arrows in the 3-2 loss isn’t the kind that will inspire confidence amongst the club’s supporters, despite keeping three consecutive clean sheets in the three matches before that. His impassioned response to conceding the third goal, a thunderous striker by Arrows striker Knox Mutizwa while surrounded by five defenders, showed intense disgruntlement as he berated his defenders who offered flimsy protection for him, which could cost him his place in the team. Get ready for the ultimate game day experience. Exclusive parking for @ToyotaSA drivers at the FNB Stadium during the game on Saturday, 25 Feb. Visit the Toyota Zone at PS12 between 10h30 & 15h30. Refer to the map below!#KCToyota #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/viZVVsaOx2  Said Peterson: “Obviously, it’s a big game. It’s one of the games you look forward to when you’re playing for Chiefs or playing for Pirates. It’s one of the biggest derbies in Africa, who wouldn’t want to be part of it?” Goalkeepers tend to come under scrutiny in the country’s biggest game of the year– as evidenced by Bucs' keeper Siyabonga Mpontshane who was caught out of position by Yusuf Maart in the previous derby in October and conceded the goal that allowed the Phefeni Glamour Boys to walk away with the bragging rights. Khune is a veteran of 27 previous derbies, and while he hasn’t been at his best in the current campaign, he’ll have plenty of admirers amongst the Amakhosi faithful who’ll prefer his cool and calm demeanour between the sticks on Saturday. Vodacom Soweto Derby Press Conference Kaizer Motaung Jr, Captain Itu, Mdu Shabalala and Siphiwe Mkhonza represented Kaizer Chiefs at this afternoon's presser at Vodacom World.A special thanks to @Vodacom for hosting us.#Amakhosi4Life #SowetoDerby #UnityInAction pic.twitter.com/1Rmhsz9XIv  "The Derby is never easy. It’s a must win for both teams. It has been a great journey for me, having participated in 27 Derbies, but again, it is more important for the Club to win the Derby and for our fans to have bragging rights." - Itu#Amakhosi4Life #SowetoDerby pic.twitter.com/VauxlDHCoW 