CAPE TOWN -  Eskom is conducting feasibility studies to assess whether its microgrid technology could be rolled out to more sites in the country. The microgrid technology, built in a shipping container, was on display at the inaugural E-Prix in Cape Town this past weekend. Eskom joined other sponsors with a R2.1 million sponsorship that featured the innovation, set to bring electricity closer to the homes of people who previously had none. On display was a shipping container featuring solar panels, as well as battery storage capacity. #MicrogridTech Power utility, Eskom, has this weekend showcased its microgrid technology at the inaugural Cape Town E-Prix. Head of Eskom’s Smartgrid Centre of Excellence for Research Testing and Development, Nick Singh, explains how it works. KB pic.twitter.com/1AHWSYroic  Eskom says it’s also deploying microgrids which will also support the growth of Mobility in the country, while also serving as an alternative solution to addressing loadshedding. pic.twitter.com/LGsa8vAXLk  The head of Eskom's Smartgrid Centre of Excellence for Research Testing and Development, Nick Singh, explained that a single container provided around 150-160 kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity per day and could power up to 40 low-cost houses. "We've had projects running from as early as 2017, where we have tested the technology. We have recently installed two in Zwartkop, which is in Upington... The closest line would have been 240 kilometres to get there. We managed to install this here using two microgrids and it came to less than R4 million." READ: Govt not constitutionally obligated to provide SA with power, says Ramaphosa Eskom currently has four sites being powered by the microgrid technology in the Ficksburg (Free State), Lynedoch (Western Cape), Swartkop (Northern Cape), supplying renewable electricity to over two hundred households, a Police station, and businesses in the area.  Singh elaborates “the system is a 12m container, fully fledged with PV panels, battery story. He says a single container can power up to 40 low-cost houses. Each of these units produces around 150 to 160kWh of electricity per day. pic.twitter.com/qixwE0cTv1  Eskom managing director for Distribution, Monde Bala, said that the utility was also aiming to convert its fleet of 13,000 vehicles to electric vehicles, where possible. "On a more social part, it is our contribution to greening the economy. Again, on the EVs purely from a cost-savings point of view, we have looked at the costs and it will be cheaper to run an electric vehicle fleet than the one that we currently have." Eskom Group Executive for Distribution, Monde Bala, “at the heart of it is us wanting to showcase some of the technologies that we have been working on that talk to how we put megawatts back into the system…” pic.twitter.com/3s7ml0oDQI  Eskom Group Executive for Distribution, Monde Bala, “at the heart of it is us wanting to showcase some of the technologies that we have been working on that talk to how we put megawatts back into the system…” pic.twitter.com/3s7ml0oDQI  Bala stressed the importance of a collaborative effort, which included joining hands with the private sector to overcome the country's energy challenges. READ: IPP estimates MP solar plants will produce electricity in roughly 3 years