JOHANNESBURG - In an internal memo, the University of Cape Town (UCT) said it would appoint an interim vice-chancellor, after terminating the employment contract of its current principal, Mamokgethi Phakeng. The university dropped part of an independent investigation into a governance crisis at UCT related to Phakeng’s conduct concerning alleged bullying at the institution. The outgoing vice-chancellor had agreed to take early retirement with effect from 3 March, said the chair of UCT Council, Babalwa Ngonyama. "The university has reached an agreement with Professor Phakeng, which requires any public announcements and press statements to    be    mutually    agreed to    between    Professor    Phakeng    and    the    university.    Unfortunately,    despite    our    best endeavours,    we    have    not    been    able    to    reach    an    agreement    as    yet    and    as    such, no    public statement can be issued regarding Professor Phakeng’s departure and we urge you to keep this communication confidential," said Ngonyama. Phakeng's associate professorship in UCT's education department would end on 28 February 2024. READ: UCT, VC Phakeng saga a 'subversive attack' on black professionals, says ANCWL The controversial VC's woes began when the deputy vice chancellor for teaching and learning, Lis Lange, resigned in May 2022. Both Phakeng and Ngonyama told the UCT Senate at the time that it was Lange who initiated her departure. However, in September, a letter from Lange emerged, telling different story. Lange wrote that she was forced out of her position by Ngonyama at the behest of Phakeng. Her departure preceded the exit of several senior academics from the institution. In October, the university's senate passed a motion for an independent probe into Phakeng and Ngonyama. It was to investigate whether the two misled faculty boards, senate, or the council regarding Lange's availability for a second term and the reasons for other resignations. READ: Malaika Mahlatsi: The danger of framing UCT VC Prof Phakeng as a victim The council now said it dropped the probe into the governance crisis at the institution specifically related to Phakeng’s conduct, and mutually agreed with her that she will retire early. Phakeng led Africa’s top university since 2018. Score ke 1 - 0🥊 pic.twitter.com/BGat5tPAeX 