JOHANNESBURG - Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) members stormed the City of Tshwane council office on Thursday calling for the removal of the Mayoral Committee Members and other staff following the resignation of Mayor Randall Williams. READ: Tshwane Mayor Randall Williams resigns Williams resigned from his position early this week saying he wants to ensure stability in the city. His resignation is expected to come into effect at the end of February. But the red berets said his staff is no longer in charge of the City of Tshwane and should all vacate their posts. There was chaos at Tshwane House as members of the metro police department had to escort municipal staff away from their offices for their own safety. "You can’t resign two times, it's not a private company. This is the municipality," said EFF Tshwane chairperson Obakeng Ramabodu. READ: Tshwane Mayor Williams says ANC has no power to remove him from office Meanwhile, the City of Tshwane's chief of staff Jordan Griffiths accused EFF members of intimation. "So the current mayoral structure in place is properly duly constituted and lawful as confirmed by the speaker yesterday. So the mayoral committee has been duly appointed and they are carrying on with their work and duties, regardless of what the EFF may say or not say. They can't stop us from working." He said despite the resignation of Williams, the mayoral structure in place is lawful. Asina Mayor Asina Lutho 📌 pic.twitter.com/BOC6LYNGrJ  [Happening Now] The EFF in Tshwane Removed all Members of the Mayoral Committee. We are calling for an urgent Council Seating to Elect a Mayor. 📌 pic.twitter.com/8hRtKaJmRB  FF PLUS TO LODGE FORMAL COMPLAINT AGAINST EFF Meanwhile, the Freedom Front Plus said it will lodge a complaint with the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC over the violent conduct of EFF councillors in Tshwane. Freedom Front Plus Gauteng leader Jaco Mulder said the executive authority of local councillors - which is the Cogta MEC - must take action against EFF councillors for breaching the ethics code of registered political parties. At the same time, EFF regional chairperson Obakeng Ramabodu defended his party’s actions, saying they were enforcing the law. “If the mayor resigns which we only recognise as the first letter - the mayoral committee must be dissolved so it has been dissolved according to us."