JOHANNESBURG - Civil society organisation Stand Up SA gathered droves of supporters to march to power utility Eskom's Sunninghill headquarters. Their demands echoed those of all South Africans: stop load shedding, and do not charge citizens more for a resource they hardly use.   Stand Up SA said it was unfair for South Africans to pay high prices for electricity while they are forced to contend with load shedding. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Blaming the ANC for the country’s energy crisis, Stand Up SA said government could not expect South Africans to pay 18.65% for electricity amid the high cost of living. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA said Eskom's financial challenges were partially caused by the power utility's failure to collect revenue from its customers. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA said Eskom's financial challenges were partially caused by the power utility's failure to collect revenue from its customers. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA said it was concerned about the mounting debt that municipalities owed to Eskom. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Civil society organisation Stand Up SA gathered demonstrators to march to Eskom's headquarters on 2 February 2023. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   In November, Eskom revealed it was owed R52 billion by municipalities across the country. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness NewsEdit Image   Stand Up SA said Eskom’s financial issues were the result of the utility failing to improve its debt collection system. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA is demanding Eskom review its plan to increase electricity prices. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA handed over its memorandum of demands to the embattled power utility on Thursday, in a bid to end load shedding.    If all municipalities were actively paying Eskom for its services, the power utility wouldn't be looking to increase electricity prices, Stand Up SA argued. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness News   Stand Up SA said it was disappointed with the proposed planned tariff increase for Eskom. Picture: Rejoice Ndlovu / Eyewitness NewsEdit Image