JOHANNESBURG - South Africa has been greylisted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). The FATF said it was keeping a watchful eye over the country. It further noted that South Africa had made a high-level political commitment to work with the force. The country had been under pressure to strengthen its financial controls - with fears over the illicit transfer of funds. But the FATF has released a report from its second plenary - saying that South Africa has made significant progress on many of the recommended actions to improve its systems. This includes developing national policies to address higher risks and newly amending the legal framework. It also noted that South Africa will work to implement its action plan by - among others - assisting in investigations and the confiscation of different types of assets in line with its risk profile.  FINANCE MINISTER GODONGWANA REACTS TO GREYLISTING Finance minister Enoch Godongwana said an action plan has been tabled before Cabinet to address the FATF’s concerns following its decision to greylist South Africa. The country joins a long list of other countries under increased scrutiny by the global financial watchdog. These include Nigeria, Burkina Faso, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Syria, Turkiye and the Philippines. While Godongwana admits the country's policies still need to be tightened up, he seems adamant measures will be put in place to deal with the illicit transfer of funds, money laundering and terrorist funding. A mutual evaluation report compiled by the FATF in 2021 identified more than 60 deficiencies in South Africa's laws to combat the illicit flow of funds. In the latest assessment, the force made further calls for South African officials to address eight other deficiencies. These include ensuring that competent authorities can apply sanctions to offenders, improving the country's financial intelligence structures, as well as tightening search-and-seizure measures. While South Africa admits systemic shortcomings, Godongwana said he’s committed to addressing the loophole swiftly. South Africa has until January 2025 to address the outstanding issues. Godongwana believes the rating will have a limited impact on financial stability and the cost of doing business with South Africa. SARB WEIGHS IN ON GREYLISTING OF SA The South African Reserve Bank (Sab) said it will double down on its no-nonsense policy against the abuse of the country's financial systems. The Sarb echoed Finance Minister Enoch Godongwana's reassurance to the FATF that the country's authorities are hard at work to deter financial crimes. The central bank said that following intensive engagements with the FATF over the progress made by South Africa since the publication of its mutual evaluation report in October 2021, the country continued to move forward. South Africa has been addressing 67 recommended actions or deficiencies highlighted in the report. Some of the work already done by Sarb's Prudential Authority include improving the frequency of inspections in the sector. But the FATF said the country still needs to make further and sustained progress in addressing eight other areas of strategic deficiencies. The central bank has called on commercial banks and other financial institutions to fully comply with all their obligations to protect the integrity of the financial system. This includes maintaining a high standard of supervision. The central bank also said it will intensify its efforts to combat all financial crimes and ensure compliance with global standards. Meanwhile, economist Jannie Rossouw said the government's slow response to address the shortcomings in the legislation is to blame for the decision. "To get South Africa greylisted is a negative development, it's been expected for a while and the real sad part is we saw this coming and government did nothing that is the really concerning part. This has been rumoured about for months and the government just dragged its feet."