JOHANNESBURG - The State intends to introduce new evidence to support its case to oppose the bail application of one of the six men accused of the Nomzamo tavern massacre. The prosecution revealed this at the Orlando Magistrates Court on Wednesday, where the six men made a brief appearance for what was supposed to be the bail judgement for one of the accused. READ: Soweto tavern deaths: 15 shot dead, at least 9 wounded At least 16 people died when heavily armed men stormed the Mdlalose Tavern in Nomzamo, in Soweto's Orlando East, in July 2022. On Wednesday, Nomzamo residents armed with traditional spears, shields, and placards protested outside the court. Judgment in the matter of accused number three was delayed due to his lawyer not being available. The magistrate was also at a different court. State advocate Inge Vogelpath told the court the defence lawyer needed to be present because the prosecution was bringing an application to re-open its case. The State planned to submit a supplementary affidavit as part of its bid to oppose bail. The court was also told that the accused had a minor stroke while in prison, and was only given Panado. READ: [Five suspects linked to Mdlalose tavern shooting in July back in court in Dec](read: https://ewn.co.za/2022/11/08/five-suspects-linked-to-mdlalose-tavern-shooting-in-july-back-in-court-in-dec) Meanwhile, a disabled man who lost four family members - a brother and three cousins - in the massacre said he will not stop attending court proceedings until the perpetrators are brought to book. Sihle Khumalo was among a large throng of angry community members outside the court. Whenever the six accused are set to appear in court – the people of Nomzamo organise transport for the elderly and others who need ferrying like Khumalo. But whenever transport is not available Khumalo, who is disabled from the waist, finds somebody to push him in his wheelchair from the informal settlement to the court. He said he is disappointed by the postponement of the case. “I am very disappointed because all of these people came to support us. Maybe tomorrow they will not be able to come, so we are begging them to continue supporting us." As the matter is rolled over to Thursday, Khumalo could be seen making his way through the crowd, asking community members and journalists not to lose interest in this case so that justice for his family can be served. The matter's postponed to Thursday.