JOHANNESBURG - The Tshwane multiparty coalition said all its members will be voting for Democratic Alliance (DA) member of Parliament Cilliers Brink to be the next executive mayor. On Tuesday, the coalition announced its mayoral candidate to replace Randall Williams who resigned on February 13 after two years at the helm. Williams resigned following a damning auditor-general’s report that found billions of rands and assets unaccounted for at the municipality. Despite unhappiness about Williams from its coalition partners, the DA announced another member from its party to run for the position of mayor in Tshwane. READ: Tshwane without mayor after legal opinion rejects Williams' amended resignation Congress of the People Tshwane councillor Dr Muruna Makwerela said according to the coalition agreement, the position of mayor is reserved only for the DA. “As long as we are bound by the coalition agreement that position will be reserved for the DA.” In a statement, the multiparty coalition said Brink is suitably qualified for the position of mayor with a history of service delivery work in Gauteng. The DA-led multiparty coalition in Tshwane has a total of 109 seats, giving them a slim 50 plus 1% majority. Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF)  in Tshwane said it will not be fielding a candidate for the vacant mayoral position. EFF Regional Chairperson Obakeng Ramabodu said they plan to hold the next mayor accountable. “The EFF in Tshwane maintains we are an opposition party and our interest is to make sure that the City of Tshwane gets to do its work mainly service delivery and attract investors and make sure that the finances of the city are run properly.” African National Congress  Regional Secretary George Matjila  said they are in consultation with smaller parties in Tshwane over who they will field to contest for mayor. Despite the DA-led multiparty coalition having a slim majority in council seats, Matjila said he is confident their candidate will emerge victorious. “We will not divulge what is going on there but where they are, they know for sure they don’t have the numbers... so just relax and watch the game movie.”