JOHANNESBURG - Civil society organisation Stand Up SA says it is disappointed with the proposed planned tariff increase for Eskom. Last month, National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) gave the power utility the go ahead to implement the 18.65% increase from the start of April. But Stand Up SA said it was unfair for South Africans to pay high prices for electricity while they are forced to contend with loadshedding. The group, together with other organisations, were marching to Eskom’s headquarters in Sunninghill on Thursday, demanding a solution to the energy crisis. The organisation’s Khustaz Mtwentwe says the 18.65 electricity tariff increase is unfair to the many South Africans struggling to make ends meet. pic.twitter.com/KblzuSbLpA  #StandUpSA is leading a march to Eskom headquarters in Sunninghill to voice frustrations over the rolling power cuts and the looming tariff increase. @Alpha_Mero25 pic.twitter.com/5onO2nlb6e  Stand Up SA’s Khustaz Mtwentwe said it was unfair for South Africans to pay high prices for services they barely used. Blaming the ANC for the country’s energy crisis, he said government could not expect South Africans to pay 18.65% for electricity amid the high cost of living. “We are not paying the 18% by Nersa. So, we are going to Eskom to tell them that we are not paying up until they get their house in order,” The organisation is demanding Eskom review its plan to increase electricity prices. STAND UP SA DECRIES ESKOM'S FAILURE TO COLLECT DEBT FROM MUNICIPALITIES Stand Up As - says Eskom’s financial challenges are partially caused by the power utility’s failure to collect revenue from its customers. It is concerned about the mounting debt municipalities owe to Eskom. In November, Eskom revealed that it is owed R52 billion by municipalities across the country. Stand Up SA’s Khustaz Mtwentwe said Eskom’s financial issues are a result of the utility failing to improve its debt collection system. He added that if all municipalities were actively paying Eskom for its services - the power utility wouldn’t be looking to increase electricity prices. “Why is it that some municipalities don’t pay and yet their lights are on? And then Eskom complains that they don’t have money and they go and ask for 18% [electricity tariff hike].” He added that Eskom should go to the municipalities in question. Stand Up SA has handed over its memorandum of demands to the embattled power utility - expecting an end to load shedding.