CAPE TOWN – African National Congress (ANC) deputy president Paul Mashatile  is playing it coy about becoming Cyril Ramaphosa’s number two. He was on Monday sworn in as a Member of Parliament (MP) for the second time - opening the door to him replacing David Mabuza as the country’s deputy president. READ: David Mabuza confirms resignation as Deputy President of South Africa Speaking in Parliament on Monday, Mashatile said for now, he’s happy to serve as an MP. Mashatile joined the ANC’s parliamentary caucus as one of four new MPs. #NewMPs New MP Paul Mashatile is playing it coy about becoming the country’s next deputy president. LD pic.twitter.com/N6OW3231EV  And while expectations are high that he will soon succeed Mabuza - who has already resigned as deputy president - Mashatile played down that assumption. “Well, I’ve been deployed here to Parliament by the ANC, and I’m the deputy president of the ANC. The deputy president of the country, is the prerogative of the president, he is the one who decides who should be deputy president, for now I’m happy to serve here.” READ: Mabuza resignation: Pressure mounts on Ramaphosa to reshuffle cabinet Mashatile took his oath alongside former KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala and presidential advisor Maropene Ramokgopa who became MPs for the first time. Parks Tau, a former deputy minister and Joburg mayor rounds out the group of new ANC MPs to join the back benches. #NewMPs Paul Mashatile, Sihle Zikalala, Maropene Ramokgopa and Parks Tau have been sworn in as new ANC MPs. LD pic.twitter.com/nRmYHndDOP  Meanwhile, ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina said Mabuza already discussed his departure from Parliament with her. While Ramaphosa asked Mabuza to delay his resignation, Majodina hinted that a cabinet reshuffle may only happen after the State of the Nation Address. She accompanied the four new MPs who were sworn in including Mashatile who is widely tipped to replace Mabuza. Mashatile did not want to comment on expectations that he will become the country’s next deputy president. He even went as far as saying he had no idea about Mabuza’s resignation. “As far as I know, he’s still deputy president of the republic.” Journalists pushed him and said: “But he said he resigned. He said the president accepted his resignation.” Replied Mashatile: “I don’t know, I haven’t seen it. The last time I saw him he was the DP [deputy president] of the Republic.” Majodina, however, said Mabuza’s departure as the leader of government business in Parliament was well under way. “I’m in touch with comrade Mabuza and we know at the end of the day the president will decide. But we also know his intention to leave government. So, we just wait for the president to give the nod or not.” Majodina added that there’s no hard and fast rule that the deputy president of the ANC also needs to be the deputy president of the country.